An introduction to the book of Daniel. Daniel wrote this prophetic book in Babylon. He was
taken to Babylon, likely as a young Judean prince, along with other nobles. In time, Daniel served
as a government official for the Babylonians and later for the Meadow Persians. Daniel
opens his book by relating events that began in 618 BCE when he was still a young man. He
completed his writing in approximately 536 BCE. Obediah, Ezekiel, and Jeremiah were Daniel's
contemporaries. They lived during a tumultuous period of Israel's history that included the
destruction of Jerusalem. Daniel witnessed the Meadow Persian conquest of Babylon and the
return of a faithful remnant of God's people to Jerusalem. However, he did not join those returning
to Jerusalem, likely because of his advanced age. The book of Daniel has twelve chapters.
Chapters 1 to 6 record in chronological order the experiences of Daniel and those of his three
companions. Chapters 7 to 12 contain Daniel's account of prophetic dreams and visions that he
received by inspiration. Chapters 1, 3 and 6 recount the various tests of integrity that Daniel and
his Hebrew companions successfully meet. As young men, they reject food and drink that would
make them unclean in God's sight. Sometime after this, Daniel's three companions, Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego, bravely face death in a fiery furnace for refusing to worship an
image representing the Babylonian state. Years later, despite an official decree prohibiting
petitions to anyone but Dorias, Daniel perseveres in prayer to Jehovah, and as a result, is thrown
into alliance pit. With each test, Daniel and his companions maintain their integrity and Jehovah
protects them. Chapters 2 and 4 describe how Jehovah gives Daniel the ability to interpret two of
King Nebuchadnezzar's dreams. Each of these divinely sent dreams has prophetic significance. The
first dream is of an immense image made of various metals. This image represents successive world
powers that have had a major influence on God's people. The prophecy ends with the destruction
of these powers, and with God's kingdom as the only government ruling over mankind. Nebuchadnezzar's
second dream features a tree that reaches to the heavens. It is cut down, and the stump is
banded for seven times. This symbolizes an interruption of rulership. However, the stump is allowed
to remain, indicating a restoration of rulership. Chapter 5 relates that handwriting miraculously
appears on the wall of the palace where Babylonian King Belshazzar holds a feast. Daniel tells
Belshazzar that the handwriting warns of the conquest of Babylon by the Meads and the Persians.
Babylon falls that very night. Did you know A large portion of the book of Daniel was written in
the Aramaic language. Aramaic was commonly spoken in ancient times, having the same letters in
its alphabet as did Hebrew. Chapter 7 and 8 describe the visions Daniel sees of a series of
beasts that picture the rise and fall of Babylon, Medopersia, Greece, and Rome. Also, Jehovah gives
his son an everlasting kingdom that will replace all human governments. Chapter 9 relates that
Daniel discerns from his study of God's written word that the Jews release from captivity is imminent.
Next, we read that while Daniel is praying, an angel appears to him and reveals details concerning
the Messiah. Chapter 10-12 discuss the event when an angel again visits Daniel, encourages him,
and gives him an additional vision of the future. A large part of the prophecy describes a conflict
between two kings locked in a struggle for supremacy. The fulfillment of the prophecy would
extend to the final part of the days. The angel reassures Daniel of God's approval and tells him
that, although he will soon rest in death, he will stand up in the resurrection at the end of the
days. As you read this book, note how much Jehovah values Daniel's faithfulness, how Jehovah
maneuvers kings in kingdoms according to his purpose, and how Jehovah gives his son an everlasting
kingdom that will replace all human governments.